talks have resumed on Sunday in Cairo
between negotiators trying to strike a
Gaza ceasefire deal a Hamas delegation
has been meeting with us Egyptian and
Qatari mediators a key stumbling block
is whether a truce would be temporary or
permanent Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu has vowed to launch a
ground offensive into the southern city
of Rafa whether there's a truce or not
Palestinians in that City tensely wait
for what might happen next
as these gazans watch the destruction of
their neighborhood negotiations that
will determine their future are taking
place a few hundred kilometers away in
Cairo the resumption of talks for a
ceasefire deal has ignited for many the
longing to return
home there's a great sense of hope and
anticipation as we have longed for
months for the negotiations to succeed
so we and all the displaced people can
go back home we yearn for stability and
bringing an end to the war and the
destruction we have
witnessed we are very hopeful God
willing we will rejoice when we return
home even if we remain in a tend like
this one but what matters is that we
return to our
homes many hope a ceasefire would end
the bombing and allowing food medicines
and other supplies that can save
lives nahit al-masri a grandfather has
found a cooked meal for his family of
16 the food distributed by the charity
World Central Kitchen is helping them
survive sometimes we have lunch but we
don't have dinner and sometimes we have
breakfast but we don't have lunch we
must manage whatever food we get from
outside is enough we share it among
ourselves and say thank
[Music]
God there used to be trucks but now
there are no trucks we haven't had
vegetables for a month and a
half the UN says parts of the Gaza Strip
are experiencing
famine the almost 7 months of War has
made the delivery and the distribution
of eight extremely
challenging but now a possibility of a
halt in fighting seems real to many
gazans who for ons have been living
through death and destruction still have
hope for better
days for more on this let's bring in
journalist kareim El goari in Cairo
thanks for joining us uh what are you
hearing from this second day of
talks yeah talks ongoing since yesterday
they are still continuing today they are
talking as uh we speak it is a Hamas
delegation together with with the
Egyptian and Ki negotiators and the head
of the CIA William Burns who is not
present is the Israeli delegation who is
saying they only will come to Cairo if
there is a written statement from Hamas
that they're accepting the Israeli
conditions what is on the table is
basically a suggestion for a several
faced exchange of hostages and um
Palestinians and Israeli prisons and uh
uh what is under debate is uh how long
the ceasefire will be or what kind of
guarantees will be that the ceasefire is
going to hold Hamas came in uh quite
positively said there are positive steps
but uh in the last hours we heard a few
negative comments from Hamas sites
saying that it is Netanyahu personally
who hindering uh the talks in Cairo so
you have Hamas saying that there won't
be a truce that doesn't end the war in
Gaza and then it doesn't sound like
something that Israel would agree
to that is the absolute sticking point
and it's a contradiction basically Hamas
is asking for some kind of guarantees
for permanent ceasefire and they want to
have these guarantees from the
negotiators from the Egyptians from the
cies but also from the Americans who
have to get this guarantees themselves
from the Israelis uh um of course that
contradicts the primary or stated War
objective of Nan saying he wants to
destroy Hamas and he wants to continue
or he wants to move into the ongoing
into
a military offensive in Rafa that of
course doesn't fit together so that how
to overcome that is difficult also the
other sticking point is that Hamas is
asking for the Israeli Army to withdraw
from the Kaz Gaza Strip so that the
people can return back home from the
south where many of them are fled to and
displaced and uh to go back to their
houses so difficult to see how this can
be really bridged and and as you said
Netanyahu threatening to invade Rafa
with or without a deal it doesn't sound
like a viable negotiating position um is
there any leverage from saying that can
you talk a little bit about that
sticking
point well Hamas made it very clear that
when there will be an offensive in Rafa
it will be over with uh it will be over
with the ceasefire negotiations there
will be no more exchanges of of of
hostages so but the same time of course
netan is announcing this offensive no
matter what if there is negotiations or
if even is there there's an agreement so
that's of course it's also Al
contradictions probably maybe also a way
how the Israeli side is trying to put
more pressure on Hamas in order to
accept their proposals there's a lot of
things that are said and addied to the
media which are basically designed to
create pressure on the other side and uh
to make some strategic interventions in
order to get some advantages in Within
These negotiations and maybe some of the
words that said publicly are also or
some of the things that are leaked are
also basically the intention is uh to
make some strategic intervention for to
get some advantage in the
negotiations Karim El goari in Kyro
thank you so much for joining
us you're
welcome and now Benjamin netanyahu's
government has just voted to stop the
Qatari broadcaster Al jazer from
operating with within Israel the
decision follows a law passed by the
Israeli nesset that allows the closure
of foreign broadcasters considered to
pose a security threat amid the war in
Gaza Israeli media say the block can
last for 45 days Al jazer has covered
the ongoing war from both Gaza and
Israel